---
layout: post2
title: "How can we use machine learning to communicate with dogs?"
permalink: /:day/:month/:year/:title
published: true+
tags: "writting"

---

This idea came up one day when I was playing with my dog, and I wondered if I could use computer vision to find the shapes and patterns in dog barks. If I could do that, then I could create a machine learning model that recognized different barks, and I could even create a text-to-bark model that could translate human natural language into dog barks!<br><br>

I really wanted to figure this out and I knew Google had a lot of the tools I needed already built, so I started trying to put this together. I didn't have any background in machine learning or computer vision, but I knew that if I could just play around with the tools in the cloud, I'd be able to learn the basics and figure out how to use them to solve my problem.<br><br>

<b>How did you approach building the prototype?</b><br><br>

I started by looking at the types of data I would need to build this concept. I knew I'd need audio and video data of dogs barking, so I started by looking for some data I could use. I found a lot of great data that had been collected by the BBC and I used this to train my models. I happened to have a video camera with me, so I picked up a dog at the bar next door and went into the alley behind my building.<br><br>

I recorded the dog barking and then I quickly uploaded it to Cloud Storage, so I could train my model using the Cloud Machine Learning Engine. I trained my model using audio data, and I also used some video data to train a video classifier. The next day I trained another model using some more video data and I used this to test my model.<br><br>

<b>My first prototype for translating dog barks to human language</b><br><br>

Once I had trained my models, it was time to test them out. I showed my dog the camera and I told her to bark. She looked at me and barked, and I asked her to say different words. I then uploaded the video to the Cloud Video Transformation Service and I quickly got back a transcription of it. I could see that my model worked pretty well!<br><br>

I trained a model using audio data, and I also used some video data to train a video classifier. The next day I trained another model using some more video data and I used this to test my model.<br><br>

Once I was happy with the model, I wanted to try to create a model that could translate a human language into dog barks. I really wanted to test this out, but I knew that some of the words in human language might be hard for a dog to bark. I wanted to see how far I could take this. I showed my dog some pictures of common objects and I taught her to bark the name of the object. I wanted to make her bark the word for the object, but it was a lot harder than I thought it would be. I thought it would be really funny if I could get her to bark the name of the object.<br><br>

After a lot of hard work, I got my dog to bark the word "dolphin" and it was amazing. I took a video and I uploaded it to Cloud Speech-to-Text, so I could translate it into text. I was thrilled with the results, but I was also really surprised to see that my dog recognized the word dolphin!<br>